As mentioned earlier,
security is like
preparing for a storm.
If you identify a leak,
the color or shape
of the bucket you
use to catch the
water doesn't matter.
What is important is
mitigating the risks and
threats to your home, by using
the tools available to you.
As an entry-level
security analyst,
you'll have a lot of tools in
your toolkit that you can
use to mitigate potential risks.
In this video, we'll discuss
the primary purposes
and functions
of some commonly
used security tools.
And later in the program,
you'll have hands-on
opportunities
to practice using them.
Before discussing tools further,
let's briefly discuss logs,
which are the
source of data that
the tools we'll cover are
designed to organize.
A log is a record of events that
occur within an
organization's systems.
Examples of security-related
logs include records of
employees signing
into their computers
or accessing web-based services.
Logs help security
professionals identify
vulnerabilities and
potential security breaches.
The first tools we'll discuss are
security information and
event management tools,
or SIEM tools.
A SIEM tool is an application
that collects and
analyzes log data to monitor
critical activities
in an organization.
The acronym S-I-E-M may be
pronounced as 'sim' or 'seem',
but we'll use 'sim'
throughout this program.
SIEM tools collect real-time,
or instant, information,
and allow security analysts to
identify potential
breaches as they happen.
Imagine having to read
pages and pages of
logs to determine if there
are any security threats.
Depending on the amount of data,
it could take hours or days.
SIEM tools reduce the amount
of data an analyst must
review by providing alerts for
specific types of
risks and threats.
Next, let's go over examples
of commonly used SIEM tools:
Splunk and Chronicle.
Splunk is a data
analysis platform,
and Splunk Enterprise
provides SIEM solutions.
Splunk Enterprise is a
self-hosted tool used to retain,
analyze, and search an
organization's log data.
Another SIEM tool is
Google's Chronicle.
Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool that
stores security data for
search and analysis.
Cloud-native means
that Chronicle
allows for fast delivery
of new features.
Both of these SIEM tools,
and SIEMs in general,
collect data from
multiple places,
then analyze and filter
that data to allow
security teams to
prevent and quickly
react to potential
security threats.
As a security analyst,
you may find yourself
using SIEM tools to
analyze filtered
events and patterns,
perform incident analysis,
or proactively
search for threats.
Depending on your organization's
SIEM setup and risk focus,
the tools and how they
function may differ,
but ultimately, they are
all used to mitigate risk.
Other key tools that
you will use in
your role as a security analyst,
and that you'll have hands-on
opportunities to use later in
the program, are playbooks and
network protocol analyzers.
A playbook is a manual that
provides details about
any operational action,
such as how to respond
to an incident.
Playbooks, which vary from one
organization to the next,
guide analysts in how to
handle a security
incident before,
during, and after
it has occurred.
Playbooks can pertain
to security or
compliance reviews,
access management,
and many other
organizational tasks that
require a documented process
from beginning to end.
Another tool you may use as
a security analyst is a
network protocol analyzer,
also called packet sniffer.
A packet sniffer is
a tool designed to
capture and analyze data
traffic within a network.
Common network
protocol analyzers
include tcpdump and Wireshark.
As an entry-level analyst,
you don't have to be an
expert in these tools.
As you continue through
this certificate program and
get more hands-on practice,
you'll continuously build
your understanding of
how to use these
tools to identify,
assess, and mitigate risks.